README.md, before:

# RedisAlerting

An alerting engine that uses keys from redis to determine if a reading is out of range.  It then writes to a key in redis to indicate that the reading is out of range.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'redis_alerting'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install redis_alerting

## Usage

To start the engine:

```sh
redis-alerting start -- -c path/to/config.yml
```

Check the status:

```sh
redis-alerting status
```

Stop it:

```sh
redis-alerting stop
```

## How it works

The gem uses specific key patterns to get the min and the max limits for a reading.

Given the config file below we will describe how the gem would check some limits and write back to redis to inidicate an out of range state.

```yaml
---
alerting:
  interval: 1              # how often to check the readings
  namespace: alerts        # where the min/max settings, and active alerts are located
  channel: alerts          # publish alert messages to this channel
  sources:                 # keys to obtain values from that need to be checked
    ph: readings.ph
    ec: readings.ec
    flow: readings.flow
```

With the example of `ph` above, the alerting system would check the redis key `readings.ph` and determine if it was outside the limits set in `alerts.ph.max` and `alerts.ph.min`.

When it finds that the value in `readings.ph` is outside the range, it will add "ph" to the redis set `alerts`.  When it comes back into range "ph" will be removed from the `alerts` set.

### Published messages

When an alert condition is added or removed, the following message will be published the channel specified in the config file in JSON format:

So when an alert is raised, this message will be published:

```json
{
  "action"   : "add",
  "name"     : "ec",
  "condition": "high",
  "value"    : 6.2,
  "min"      : 0.1,
  "max"      : 5.8
}
```

When an alert is no longer active, this message will be published:

```json
{
  "action" : "remove",
  "name"   : "flow",
  "value"  : 2.4,
  "min"    : 0.1,
  "max"    : 5.8
}
```

### Simple example

With the engine started try this (still sticking with the keys in the config file above):

```sh
$ redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> set alerts.ph.min 4000
127.0.0.1:6379> set alerts.ph.max 9000
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 6000
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts
(empty list or set)
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 9100
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts
1) "ph"
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 3900
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts
1) "ph"
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 6000
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts
(empty list or set)
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/[my-github-username]/redis-alerting/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

Commit message:

changed the active set to be a key under the namespace called active
- so instead of active set key name "alerts" it would be "alerts.active"
- updated README

README.md, after:

# RedisAlerting

An alerting engine that uses keys from redis to determine if a reading is out of range.  It then writes to a key in redis to indicate that the reading is out of range.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'redis_alerting'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install redis_alerting

## Usage

To start the engine:

```sh
redis-alerting start -- -c path/to/config.yml
```

Check the status:

```sh
redis-alerting status
```

Stop it:

```sh
redis-alerting stop
```

## How it works

The gem uses specific key patterns to get the min and the max limits for a reading.

Given the config file below we will describe how the gem would check some limits and write back to redis to inidicate an out of range state.

```yaml
---
alerting:
  interval: 1              # how often to check the readings
  namespace: alerts        # where the min/max settings, and active alerts are located
  channel: alerts          # publish alert messages to this channel
  sources:                 # keys to obtain values from that need to be checked
    ph: readings.ph
    ec: readings.ec
    flow: readings.flow
#   name: redis.key.with.live.value
```

With the example of `ph` above, the alerting system would check the redis key `readings.ph` and determine if it was outside the limits set in `alerts.ph.max` and `alerts.ph.min`.

When it finds that the value in `readings.ph` is outside the range, it will add "ph" to the redis set `alerts.active`.  When it comes back into range "ph" will be removed from the `alerts.active` set.

So to quickly summarize:

* `readings.ph` - the reading value used to check against the min and max settings
* `alerts.ph.min` - the minimum value for the reading (below which an alert is raised)
* `alerts.ph.max` - the maximum value for the reading (above which an alert is raised)
* `alerts.active` - the Redis SET that contains the names of the active alerts (e.g. "ph", "ec" or "flow")

### Published messages

When an alert condition is added or removed, the following message will be published the channel specified in the config file in JSON format:

So when an alert is raised, this message will be published:

```json
{
  "action"   : "add",
  "name"     : "ec",
  "condition": "high",
  "value"    : 6.2,
  "min"      : 0.1,
  "max"      : 5.8
}
```

When an alert is no longer active, this message will be published:

```json
{
  "action" : "remove",
  "name"   : "flow",
  "value"  : 2.4,
  "min"    : 0.1,
  "max"    : 5.8
}
```

### Simple example

With the engine started try this (still sticking with the keys in the config file above):

```sh
$ redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> set alerts.ph.min 4000
127.0.0.1:6379> set alerts.ph.max 9000
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 6000
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts.active
(empty list or set)
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 9100
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts.active
1) "ph"
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 3900
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts.active
1) "ph"
127.0.0.1:6379> set readings.ph 6000
127.0.0.1:6379> smembers alerts.active
(empty list or set)
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/[my-github-username]/redis-alerting/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request
